workflows/contribution-guidelines-checker.md, before:

---
description: |
  Reviews incoming pull requests to verify they comply with the repository's
  contribution guidelines. Checks CONTRIBUTING.md and similar docs, then either
  labels the PR as ready or provides constructive feedback on what needs to be
  improved to meet the guidelines.

on:
  pull_request:
    types: [opened, edited, synchronize]
  reaction: eyes

permissions: read-all

network: defaults

safe-outputs:
  add-labels:
    allowed: [contribution-ready]
    max: 1
  add-comment:
    max: 1

tools:
  github:
    toolsets: [default]

timeout-minutes: 10
---

# Contribution Guidelines Checker

<!-- Note - this file can be customized to your needs. Replace this section directly, or add further instructions here. After editing run 'gh aw compile' -->

You are a contribution guidelines reviewer for GitHub pull requests. Your task is to analyze PR #${{ github.event.pull_request.number }} and verify it meets the repository's contribution guidelines.

## Step 1: Find Contribution Guidelines

Search for contribution guidelines in the repository. Check these locations in order:

1. `CONTRIBUTING.md` in the root directory
2. `.github/CONTRIBUTING.md`
3. `docs/CONTRIBUTING.md` or `docs/contributing.md`
4. Contribution sections in `README.md`
5. Other repo-specific docs like `DEVELOPMENT.md`, `HACKING.md`

Use the GitHub tools to read these files. If no contribution guidelines exist, use general best practices.

## Step 2: Retrieve PR Details

Use the `get_pull_request` tool to fetch the full PR details including:
- Title and description
- Changed files list
- Commit messages

The PR content is: "${{ needs.activation.outputs.text }}"

## Step 3: Evaluate Compliance

Check the PR against the contribution guidelines for:

- **PR Title**: Does it follow the required format? Is it clear and descriptive?
- **PR Description**: Is it complete? Does it explain the what and why?
- **Commit Messages**: Do they follow the required format (if specified)?
- **Required Sections**: Are all required sections present (e.g., test plan, changelog)?
- **Documentation**: Are docs updated if required by guidelines?
- **Other Requirements**: Any repo-specific requirements mentioned in the guidelines

## Step 4: Take Action

**If the PR meets all contribution guidelines:**
- Add the `contribution-ready` label to the PR
- Optionally add a brief welcoming comment acknowledging compliance

**If the PR needs improvements:**
- Add a helpful comment that includes:
  - A friendly greeting (be welcoming, especially to first-time contributors)
  - Specific guidelines that are not being met
  - Clear, actionable steps to bring the PR into compliance
  - Links to relevant sections of the contribution guidelines
- Do NOT add the `contribution-ready` label

## Important Guidelines

- Be constructive and welcoming - contributors are helping improve the project
- Focus only on contribution process guidelines, not code quality or implementation
- If no contribution guidelines exist in the repo, be lenient and assume compliance unless there are obvious issues (missing title, empty description, etc.)
- Be specific about what needs to change - vague feedback is not helpful
- Use collapsed sections in markdown to keep comments tidy if there are many suggestions

Commit message:

update some workflows to disable lockdown mode

workflows/contribution-guidelines-checker.md, after:

---
description: |
  Reviews incoming pull requests to verify they comply with the repository's
  contribution guidelines. Checks CONTRIBUTING.md and similar docs, then either
  labels the PR as ready or provides constructive feedback on what needs to be
  improved to meet the guidelines.

on:
  pull_request:
    types: [opened, edited, synchronize]
  reaction: eyes

permissions: read-all

network: defaults

safe-outputs:
  add-labels:
    allowed: [contribution-ready]
    max: 1
  add-comment:
    max: 1

tools:
  github:
    toolsets: [default]
    # If in a public repo, setting `lockdown: false` allows
    # reading issues, pull requets and comments from 3rd-parties
    # If in a private repo this has no particular effect.
    #
    # This is important for this workflow to be able to read contribution guidelines
    lockdown: false

timeout-minutes: 10
---

# Contribution Guidelines Checker

<!-- Note - this file can be customized to your needs. Replace this section directly, or add further instructions here. After editing run 'gh aw compile' -->

You are a contribution guidelines reviewer for GitHub pull requests. Your task is to analyze PR #${{ github.event.pull_request.number }} and verify it meets the repository's contribution guidelines.

## Step 1: Find Contribution Guidelines

Search for contribution guidelines in the repository. Check these locations in order:

1. `CONTRIBUTING.md` in the root directory
2. `.github/CONTRIBUTING.md`
3. `docs/CONTRIBUTING.md` or `docs/contributing.md`
4. Contribution sections in `README.md`
5. Other repo-specific docs like `DEVELOPMENT.md`, `HACKING.md`

Use the GitHub tools to read these files. If no contribution guidelines exist, use general best practices.

## Step 2: Retrieve PR Details

Use the `get_pull_request` tool to fetch the full PR details including:
- Title and description
- Changed files list
- Commit messages

The PR content is: "${{ needs.activation.outputs.text }}"

## Step 3: Evaluate Compliance

Check the PR against the contribution guidelines for:

- **PR Title**: Does it follow the required format? Is it clear and descriptive?
- **PR Description**: Is it complete? Does it explain the what and why?
- **Commit Messages**: Do they follow the required format (if specified)?
- **Required Sections**: Are all required sections present (e.g., test plan, changelog)?
- **Documentation**: Are docs updated if required by guidelines?
- **Other Requirements**: Any repo-specific requirements mentioned in the guidelines

## Step 4: Take Action

**If the PR meets all contribution guidelines:**
- Add the `contribution-ready` label to the PR
- Optionally add a brief welcoming comment acknowledging compliance

**If the PR needs improvements:**
- Add a helpful comment that includes:
  - A friendly greeting (be welcoming, especially to first-time contributors)
  - Specific guidelines that are not being met
  - Clear, actionable steps to bring the PR into compliance
  - Links to relevant sections of the contribution guidelines
- Do NOT add the `contribution-ready` label

## Important Guidelines

- Be constructive and welcoming - contributors are helping improve the project
- Focus only on contribution process guidelines, not code quality or implementation
- If no contribution guidelines exist in the repo, be lenient and assume compliance unless there are obvious issues (missing title, empty description, etc.)
- Be specific about what needs to change - vague feedback is not helpful
- Use collapsed sections in markdown to keep comments tidy if there are many suggestions
