workflows/daily-team-status.md, before:

---
on:
  schedule:
    # Every day at 9am UTC, all days except Saturday and Sunday
    - cron: "0 9 * * 1-5"
  workflow_dispatch:

  stop-after: +30d # workflow will no longer trigger after 30 days. Remove this and recompile to run indefinitely

timeout_minutes: 15
permissions:
  contents: read
  issues: write  # needed to write the output status report to an issue
  pull-requests: read
  discussions: read
  actions: read
  checks: read
  statuses: read

tools:
  github:
    allowed: [create_issue, update_issue]
  claude:
    allowed:
      WebFetch:
      WebSearch:
---

# Daily Team Status

1. Search for any previous "Daily Team Status" open issues in the repository. Close them.

2. Write an upbeat, friendly, motiviating summary of recent activity in the repo.

   - Include some or all of the following:
     * Recent issues activity
     * Recent pull requests
     * Recent discussions
     * Recent releases
     * Recent comments
     * Recent code reviews
     * Recent code changes
     * Recent failed CI runs

   - If little has happened, don't write too much.

   - Give some depth thought into ways the team can improve their productivity, and suggest some ways to do that.

   - Include a description of open source community engagement, if any.

   - Highlight suggestions for possible investment, ideas for features and project plan, ways to improve community engagement, and so on.

   - Be helpful, thoughtful, respectful, positive, kind, and encouraging.

   - Use emojis to make the report more engaging and fun, but don't overdo it.

   - Include a short haiku at the end of the report to help orient the team to the season of their work.

   - In a note at the end of the report, include a log of
     * all search queries (web, issues, pulls, content) you used to generate the data for the report
     * all commands you used to generate the data for the report
     * all files you read to generate the data for the report
     * places you didn't have time to read or search, but would have liked to

   Create a new GitHub issue with title starting with "Daily Team Status" containing a markdown report with your findings. Use links where appropriate.

   Only a new issue should be created, no existing issues should be adjusted.

@include agentics/shared/include-link.md

@include agentics/shared/xpia.md

@include agentics/shared/gh-extra-tools.md

<!-- You can customize prompting and tools in .github/workflows/agentics/daily-team-status.config -->
@include? agentics/daily-team-status.config

Commit message:

Update framework, document pr-fix, separate extra github tools read/pr (#41)
* update framework

* update framework

workflows/daily-team-status.md, after:

---
on:
  schedule:
    # Every day at 9am UTC, all days except Saturday and Sunday
    - cron: "0 9 * * 1-5"
  workflow_dispatch:

  stop-after: +30d # workflow will no longer trigger after 30 days. Remove this and recompile to run indefinitely

safe-outputs:
  create-issue:

timeout_minutes: 15

permissions: read-all

tools:
  claude:
    allowed:
      WebFetch:
      WebSearch:
---

# Daily Team Status

1. Search for recent "Daily Team Status" open issues in the repository. Read them to understand the context of the team and recent activity, and to avoid duplication.

2. Write an upbeat, friendly, motiviating summary of recent activity in the repo.

   - Include some or all of the following:
     * Recent issues activity
     * Recent pull requests
     * Recent discussions
     * Recent releases
     * Recent comments
     * Recent code reviews
     * Recent code changes
     * Recent failed CI runs

   - If little has happened, don't write too much.

   - Give some depth thought into ways the team can improve their productivity, and suggest some ways to do that.

   - Include a description of open source community engagement, if any.

   - Highlight suggestions for possible investment, ideas for features and project plan, ways to improve community engagement, and so on.

   - Be helpful, thoughtful, respectful, positive, kind, and encouraging.

   - Use emojis to make the report more engaging and fun, but don't overdo it.

   - Include a short haiku at the end of the report to help orient the team to the season of their work.

   - In a note at the end of the report, include a log of
     * all search queries (web, issues, pulls, content) you used to generate the data for the report
     * all commands you used to generate the data for the report
     * all files you read to generate the data for the report
     * places you didn't have time to read or search, but would have liked to

   Create a new GitHub issue with title starting with "Daily Team Status" containing a markdown report with your findings. Use links where appropriate.

   Only a new issue should be created, no existing issues should be adjusted.

@include agentics/shared/include-link.md

@include agentics/shared/xpia.md

@include agentics/shared/gh-extra-read-tools.md

<!-- You can customize prompting and tools in .github/workflows/agentics/daily-team-status.config -->
@include? agentics/daily-team-status.config
