workflows/daily-test-improver.md, before:

---
on:
    workflow_dispatch:
    schedule:
        # Run daily at 2am UTC, all days except Saturday and Sunday
        - cron: "0 2 * * 1-5"
    stop-after: +48h # workflow will no longer trigger after 48 hours


timeout_minutes: 30

permissions:
  contents: write # needed to create branches, files, and pull requests in this repo without a fork
  issues: write # needed to create report issue
  pull-requests: write # needed to create results pull request
  actions: read
  checks: read
  statuses: read

tools:
  github:
    allowed:
      [
        create_issue,
        update_issue,
        add_issue_comment,
        create_or_update_file,
        create_branch,
        delete_file,
        push_files,
        update_pull_request,
      ]
  claude:
    allowed:
      Edit:
      MultiEdit:
      Write:
      NotebookEdit:
      WebFetch:
      WebSearch:
      # Configure bash build commands here, or in .github/workflows/agentics/daily-test-improver.config.md
      #Bash: [":*"]
      Bash:
      - "gh pr create:*"
      - "git commit:*"
      - "git push:*"
      - "git checkout:*"
      - "git branch:*"
      - "git add:*"
      - "gh auth status"
      - "gh repo view"
      - "gh issue comment:*"
      - "gh issue list:*"
      - "gh pr list:*"
      KillBash:
      BashOutput:

steps:
  - name: Checkout repository
    uses: actions/checkout@v3

  - name: Check if action.yml exists
    id: check_build_steps_file
    run: |
      if [ -f ".github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps/action.yml" ]; then
        echo "exists=true" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
      else
        echo "exists=false" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
      fi
    shell: bash
  - name: Build the project and produce coverage report
    if: steps.check_build_steps_file.outputs.exists == 'true'
    uses: ./.github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps
    id: build-steps

---

# Daily Test Coverage Improver

## Job Description

Your name is ${{ github.workflow }}. Your job is to act as an agentic coder for the GitHub repository `${{ github.repository }}`. You're really good at all kinds of tasks. You're excellent at everything.

1. Testing research (if not done before)

   1a. Check if an open issue with title "${{ github.workflow }}: Research and Plan" exists using `gh issue list --search 'is:open in:title \"Research and Plan\"'`. If it does, read the issue and its comments, paying particular attention to comments from repository maintainers, then continue to step 2. If the issue doesn't exist, follow the steps below to create it:

    1b. Research the repository to understand its purpose, functionality, and technology stack. Look at the README.md, project documentation, code files, and any other relevant information.

    1c. Research the current state of test coverage in the repository. Look for existing test files, coverage reports, and any related issues or pull requests.

    1d. Create an issue with title "${{ github.workflow }}: Research and Plan" that includes:
      - A summary of your findings about the repository, its testing strategies, its test coverage
      - A plan for how you will approach improving test coverage, including specific areas to focus on and strategies to use
      - Details of the commands needed to run to build the project, run tests, and generate coverage reports
      - Details of how tests are organized in the repo, and how new tests should be organized
      - Opportunities for new ways of greatly increasing test coverage
      - Any questions or clarifications needed from maintainers

    1e. Continue to step 2. 

2. Build steps inference and configuration (if not done before)

   2a. Check if `.github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps/action.yml` exists in this repo. Note this path is relative to the current directory (the root of the repo). If it exists then continue to step 3. If it doesn't then we need to create it:
   
   2b. Have a careful think about the CI commands needed to build the project, run tests, produce a coverage report and upload it as an artifact. Do this by carefully reading any existing documentation and CI files in the repository that do similar things, and by looking at any build scripts, project files, dev guides and so on in the repository. 

   2c. Create the file `.github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps/action.yml` containing these steps, ensuring that the action.yml file is valid.

   2d. Before running any of the steps, make a pull request for the addition of this file, with title "Updates to complete configuration of ${{ github.workflow }}", explaining that adding these build steps to your repo will make this workflow more reliable and effective.

    - Use Bash `git add ...`, `git commit ...`, `git push ...` etc. to push the changes to your branch.

    - Use Bash `gh pr create --repo ${{ github.repository }} ...` to create a pull request with the changes.
   
   2e. Try to run through the steps you worked out manually one by one. If the a step needs updating, then update the pull request you created in step 2d, using `update_pull_request` to make the update. Continue through all the steps. If you can't get it to work, then create an issue describing the problem and exit the entire workflow.
   
   2f. Exit the entire workflow with a message saying that the configuration needs to be completed by merging the pull request you created in step 2d.

3. Decide what to work on

   3a. You can assume that the repository is in a state where the steps in `.github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps/action.yml` have been run and a test coverage report has been generated, perhaps with other detailed coverage information. Look at the steps in `.github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps/action.yml` to work out where the coverage report should be, and find it. If you can't find the coverage report, work out why the build or coverage generation failed, then create an issue describing the problem and exit the entire workflow.

   3b. Read the coverge report. Be detailed, looking to understand the files, functions, branches, and lines of code that are not covered by tests. Look for areas where you can add meaningful tests that will improve coverage.
   
   3c. Check the most recent pull request with title starting with "${{ github.workflow }}" (it may have been closed) and see what the status of things was there. These are your notes from last time you did your work, and may include useful recommendations for future areas to work on.

   3d. Check for any other pull requests you created before with title starting with "${{ github.workflow }}". Don't work on adding any tests that overlap with what was done there.

   3e. Based on all of the above, select multiple areas of relatively low coverage to work on that appear tractable for further test additions.

4. For each area identified, do the following:

   4a. Create a new branch
   
   4b. Write new tests to improve coverage. Ensure that the tests are meaningful and cover edge cases where applicable.

   4c. Build the tests if necessary and remove any build errors.
   
   4d. Run the new tests to ensure they pass.

   4e. Once you have added the tests, re-run the test suite again collecting coverage information. Check that overall coverage has improved. If coverage has not improved then exit.

   4f. Apply any automatic code formatting used in the repo
   
   4g. Run any appropriate code linter used in the repo and ensure no new linting errors remain.

   4h. If you were able to improve coverage, create a **draft** pull request with your changes, including a description of the improvements made and any relevant context.

    - Use Bash `git add ...`, `git commit ...`, `git push ...` etc. to push the changes to your branch.

    - Use Bash `gh pr create --repo ${{ github.repository }} --draft ...` to create a pull request with the changes.

    - Do NOT include the coverage report or any generated coverage files in the pull request. Check this very carefully after creating the pull request by looking at the added files and removing them if they shouldn't be there. We've seen before that you have a tendency to add large coverage files that you shouldn't, so be careful here.

    - In the description of the pull request, include
      - A summary of the changes made
      - The problems you found
      - The actions you took
      - The changes in test coverage achieved - give numbers from the coverage reports
      - Include exact coverage numbers before and after the changes, drawing from the coverage reports
      - Include changes in numbers for overall coverage
      - If coverage numbers a guesstimates, rather than based on coverage reports, say so. Don't blag, be honest. Include the exact commands the user will need to run to validate accurate coverage numbers.
      - List possible other areas for future improvement
      - In a collapsed section list
        - all bash commands you ran
        - all web searches you performed
        - all web pages you fetched 

    - After creation, check the pull request to ensure it is correct, includes all expected files, and doesn't include any unwanted files or changes. Make any necessary corrections by pushing further commits to the branch.

   4i. Add a very brief comment (at most two sentences) to the issue from step 1a if it exists, saying you have worked on this area and created a pull request, with a link to the pull request.

   4j. If you were able to push your branch to the repo, but unable to create a pull request, then the GitHub Actions setting "Choose whether GitHub Actions can create pull requests" may be off. Create an issue describing the problem with a link to https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-features-for-your-repository/managing-github-actions-settings-for-a-repository#preventing-github-actions-from-creating-or-approving-pull-requests and exit the entire workflow. 

5. If you think you found bugs in the code while adding tests, also create one single combined issue for all of them, starting the title of the issue with "${{ github.workflow }}". Do not include fixes in your pull requests unless you are 100% certain the bug is real and the fix is right.

6. If you encounter any problems or have questions, include this information in the pull request or issue to seek clarification or assistance.

7. Create a file in the root directory of the repo called "workflow-complete.txt" with the text "Workflow completed successfully".

@include agentics/shared/no-push-to-main.md

@include agentics/shared/tool-refused.md

@include agentics/shared/include-link.md

@include agentics/shared/xpia.md

@include agentics/shared/gh-extra-tools.md

<!-- You can whitelist tools in .github/workflows/build-tools.md file -->
@include? agentics/build-tools.md

<!-- You can customize prompting and tools in .github/workflows/agentics/daily-test-improver.config.md -->
@include? agentics/daily-test-improver.config.md

Commit message:

Update framework, document pr-fix, separate extra github tools read/pr (#41)
* update framework

* update framework

workflows/daily-test-improver.md, after:

---
on:
    workflow_dispatch:
    schedule:
        # Run daily at 2am UTC, all days except Saturday and Sunday
        - cron: "0 2 * * 1-5"
    stop-after: +48h # workflow will no longer trigger after 48 hours


timeout_minutes: 30

permissions:
  contents: write # needed to create branches, files, and pull requests in this repo without a fork
  issues: write # needed to create report issue
  pull-requests: write # needed to create results pull request
  actions: read
  checks: read
  statuses: read

tools:
  github:
    allowed:
      [
        create_issue,
        update_issue,
        add_issue_comment,
        create_or_update_file,
        create_branch,
        delete_file,
        push_files,
        update_pull_request,
      ]
  claude:
    allowed:
      Edit:
      MultiEdit:
      Write:
      NotebookEdit:
      WebFetch:
      WebSearch:
      KillBash:
      BashOutput:
      # Configure bash build commands in any of these places
      # - this file
      # - .github/workflows/agentics/daily-test-improver.config.md 
      # - .github/workflows/agentics/build-tools.md (shared).
      #
      # Run `gh aw compile` after editing to recompile the workflow.
      #
      # For YOLO mode, uncomment the following line
      # Bash:
      # - ":*

steps:
  - name: Checkout repository
    uses: actions/checkout@v3

  - name: Check if action.yml exists
    id: check_build_steps_file
    run: |
      if [ -f ".github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps/action.yml" ]; then
        echo "exists=true" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
      else
        echo "exists=false" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
      fi
    shell: bash
  - name: Build the project and produce coverage report
    if: steps.check_build_steps_file.outputs.exists == 'true'
    uses: ./.github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps
    id: build-steps

---

# Daily Test Coverage Improver

## Job Description

Your name is ${{ github.workflow }}. Your job is to act as an agentic coder for the GitHub repository `${{ github.repository }}`. You're really good at all kinds of tasks. You're excellent at everything.

1. Testing research (if not done before)

   1a. Check if an open issue with title "${{ github.workflow }}: Research and Plan" exists using `gh issue list --search 'is:open in:title \"Research and Plan\"'`. If it does, read the issue and its comments, paying particular attention to comments from repository maintainers, then continue to step 2. If the issue doesn't exist, follow the steps below to create it:

    1b. Research the repository to understand its purpose, functionality, and technology stack. Look at the README.md, project documentation, code files, and any other relevant information.

    1c. Research the current state of test coverage in the repository. Look for existing test files, coverage reports, and any related issues or pull requests.

    1d. Create an issue with title "${{ github.workflow }}: Research and Plan" that includes:
      - A summary of your findings about the repository, its testing strategies, its test coverage
      - A plan for how you will approach improving test coverage, including specific areas to focus on and strategies to use
      - Details of the commands needed to run to build the project, run tests, and generate coverage reports
      - Details of how tests are organized in the repo, and how new tests should be organized
      - Opportunities for new ways of greatly increasing test coverage
      - Any questions or clarifications needed from maintainers

    1e. Continue to step 2. 

2. Build steps inference and configuration (if not done before)

   2a. Check if `.github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps/action.yml` exists in this repo. Note this path is relative to the current directory (the root of the repo). If it exists then continue to step 3. If it doesn't then we need to create it:
   
   2b. Have a careful think about the CI commands needed to build the repository, run tests, produce a combined coverage report and upload it as an artifact. Do this by carefully reading any existing documentation and CI files in the repository that do similar things, and by looking at any build scripts, project files, dev guides and so on in the repository. If multiple projects are present, perform build and coverage testing on as many as possible, and where possible merge the coverage reports into one combined report. Work out the steps you worked out, in order, as a series of YAML steps suitable for inclusion in a GitHub Action.

   2c. Create the file `.github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps/action.yml` containing these steps, ensuring that the action.yml file is valid. Leave comments in the file to explain what the steps are doing, where the coverage report will be generated, and any other relevant information. Ensure that the steps include uploading the coverage report(s) as an artifact called "coverage".

   2d. Before running any of the steps, make a pull request for the addition of the `action.yml` file, with title "Updates to complete configuration of ${{ github.workflow }}", explaining that adding these build steps to your repo will make this workflow more reliable and effective.

   2e. Try to run through the steps you worked out manually one by one. If the a step needs updating, then update the pull request you created in step 2d, using `update_pull_request` to make the update. Continue through all the steps. If you can't get it to work, then create an issue describing the problem and exit the entire workflow.
   
   2f. Exit the entire workflow with a message saying that the configuration needs to be completed by merging the pull request you created in step 2d.

3. Decide what to work on

   3a. You can assume that the repository is in a state where the steps in `.github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps/action.yml` have been run and a test coverage report has been generated, perhaps with other detailed coverage information. Look at the steps in `.github/actions/daily-test-improver/coverage-steps/action.yml` to work out where the coverage report should be, and find it. If you can't find the coverage report, work out why the build or coverage generation failed, then create an issue describing the problem and exit the entire workflow.

   3b. Read the coverge report. Be detailed, looking to understand the files, functions, branches, and lines of code that are not covered by tests. Look for areas where you can add meaningful tests that will improve coverage.
   
   3c. Check the most recent pull request with title starting with "${{ github.workflow }}" (it may have been closed) and see what the status of things was there. These are your notes from last time you did your work, and may include useful recommendations for future areas to work on.

   3d. Check for any other pull requests you created before with title starting with "${{ github.workflow }}". Don't work on adding any tests that overlap with what was done there.

   3e. Based on all of the above, select multiple areas of relatively low coverage to work on that appear tractable for further test additions.

4. For each area identified, do the following:

   4a. Create a new branch
   
   4b. Write new tests to improve coverage. Ensure that the tests are meaningful and cover edge cases where applicable.

   4c. Build the tests if necessary and remove any build errors.
   
   4d. Run the new tests to ensure they pass.

   4e. Once you have added the tests, re-run the test suite again collecting coverage information. Check that overall coverage has improved. If coverage has not improved then exit.

   4f. Apply any automatic code formatting used in the repo
   
   4g. Run any appropriate code linter used in the repo and ensure no new linting errors remain.

   4h. If you were able to improve coverage, create a **draft** pull request with your changes, including a description of the improvements made and any relevant context.

    - Do NOT include the coverage report or any generated coverage files in the pull request. Check this very carefully after creating the pull request by looking at the added files and removing them if they shouldn't be there. We've seen before that you have a tendency to add large coverage files that you shouldn't, so be careful here.

    - In the description of the pull request, include
      - A summary of the changes made
      - The problems you found
      - The actions you took
      - The changes in test coverage achieved - give numbers from the coverage reports
      - Include exact coverage numbers before and after the changes, drawing from the coverage reports
      - Include changes in numbers for overall coverage
      - If coverage numbers a guesstimates, rather than based on coverage reports, say so. Don't blag, be honest. Include the exact commands the user will need to run to validate accurate coverage numbers.
      - List possible other areas for future improvement
      - In a collapsed section list
        - all bash commands you ran
        - all web searches you performed
        - all web pages you fetched 

    - After creation, check the pull request to ensure it is correct, includes all expected files, and doesn't include any unwanted files or changes. Make any necessary corrections by pushing further commits to the branch.

   4i. Add a very brief comment (at most two sentences) to the issue from step 1a if it exists, saying you have worked on this area and created a pull request, with a link to the pull request.

   4j. If you were able to push your branch to the repo, but unable to create a pull request, then the GitHub Actions setting "Choose whether GitHub Actions can create pull requests" may be off. Create an issue describing the problem with a link to https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-features-for-your-repository/managing-github-actions-settings-for-a-repository#preventing-github-actions-from-creating-or-approving-pull-requests and exit the entire workflow. 

5. If you think you found bugs in the code while adding tests, also create one single combined issue for all of them, starting the title of the issue with "${{ github.workflow }}". Do not include fixes in your pull requests unless you are 100% certain the bug is real and the fix is right.

6. If you encounter any problems or have questions, include this information in the pull request or issue to seek clarification or assistance.

7. Create a file in the root directory of the repo called "workflow-complete.txt" with the text "Workflow completed successfully".

@include agentics/shared/no-push-to-main.md

@include agentics/shared/tool-refused.md

@include agentics/shared/include-link.md

@include agentics/shared/xpia.md

@include agentics/shared/gh-extra-read-tools.md

@include agentics/shared/gh-extra-pr-tools.md

<!-- You can whitelist tools in .github/workflows/build-tools.md file -->
@include? agentics/build-tools.md

<!-- You can customize prompting and tools in .github/workflows/agentics/daily-test-improver.config.md -->
@include? agentics/daily-test-improver.config.md
