workflows/issue-triage.md, before:

---
on:
  issues:
    types: [opened, reopened]

ai-reaction: eyes

permissions:
  contents: read
  models: read
  issues: write  # needed to write comments to the issue
  actions: read
  checks: read
  statuses: read
  pull-requests: read

tools:
  github:
    allowed: [update_issue, add_issue_comment]
  claude:
    allowed:
      WebFetch:
      WebSearch:

# By default agentic workflows use a concurrency setting that
# allows one run at a time, regardless of branch or issue. This is
# not appropriate for triage workflows, so here we allow one run
# per issue at a time.
concurrency:
   group: "triage-${{ github.event.issue.number }}"
   cancel-in-progress: true

timeout_minutes: 10
---

# Agentic Triage

<!-- Note - this file can be customized to your needs. Replace this section directly, or add further instructions here. After editing run 'gh aw compile' -->

You're a triage assistant for GitHub issues. Your task is to analyze issue #${{ github.event.issue.number }} and perform some initial triage tasks related to that issue.

1. Select appropriate labels for the issue from the provided list.
2. Retrieve the issue content using the `get_issue` tool. If the issue is obviously spam, or generated by bot, or something else that is not an actual issue to be worked on, then do nothing and exit the workflow.
3. Next, use the GitHub tools to get the issue details

   - Fetch the list of labels available in this repository. Use 'gh label list' bash command to fetch the labels. This will give you the labels you can use for triaging issues.
   - Retrieve the issue content using the `get_issue`
   - Fetch any comments on the issue using the `get_issue_comments` tool
   - Find similar issues if needed using the `search_issues` tool
   - List the issues to see other open issues in the repository using the `list_issues` tool

4. Analyze the issue content, considering:

   - The issue title and description
   - The type of issue (bug report, feature request, question, etc.)
   - Technical areas mentioned
   - Severity or priority indicators
   - User impact
   - Components affected

5. Write notes, ideas, nudges, resource links, debugging strategies and/or reproduction steps for the team to consider relevant to the issue.

6. Select appropriate labels from the available labels list provided above:

   - Choose labels that accurately reflect the issue's nature
   - Be specific but comprehensive
   - Select priority labels if you can determine urgency (high-priority, med-priority, or low-priority)
   - Consider platform labels (android, ios) if applicable
   - Search for similar issues, and if you find similar issues consider using a "duplicate" label if appropriate. Only do so if the issue is a duplicate of another OPEN issue.
   - Only select labels from the provided list above
   - It's okay to not add any labels if none are clearly applicable

7. Apply the selected labels:

   - Use the `update_issue` tool to apply the labels to the issue
   - DO NOT communicate directly with users
   - If no labels are clearly applicable, do not apply any labels

8. Add an issue comment to the issue with your analysis:
   - Start with "🎯 Agentic Issue Triage"
   - Provide a brief summary of the issue
   - Mention any relevant details that might help the team understand the issue better
   - Include any debugging strategies or reproduction steps if applicable
   - Suggest resources or links that might be helpful for resolving the issue or learning skills related to the issue or the particular area of the codebase affected by it
   - Mention any nudges or ideas that could help the team in addressing the issue
   - If you have possible reproduction steps, include them in the comment
   - If you have any debugging strategies, include them in the comment
   - If appropriate break the issue down to sub-tasks and write a checklist of things to do.
   - Use collapsed-by-default sections in the GitHub markdown to keep the comment tidy. Collapse all sections except the short main summary at the top.

@include agentics/shared/tool-refused.md

@include agentics/shared/include-link.md

@include agentics/shared/job-summary.md

@include agentics/shared/xpia.md

@include agentics/shared/gh-extra-tools.md

Commit message:

add stop times and docs

workflows/issue-triage.md, after:

---
on:
  issues:
    types: [opened, reopened]

ai-reaction: eyes

stop-time: +30d # workflow will no longer trigger after 30 days. Remove this and recompile to run indefinitely

permissions:
  contents: read
  models: read
  issues: write  # needed to write comments to the issue
  actions: read
  checks: read
  statuses: read
  pull-requests: read

tools:
  github:
    allowed: [update_issue, add_issue_comment]
  claude:
    allowed:
      WebFetch:
      WebSearch:

# By default agentic workflows use a concurrency setting that
# allows one run at a time, regardless of branch or issue. This is
# not appropriate for triage workflows, so here we allow one run
# per issue at a time.
concurrency:
   group: "triage-${{ github.event.issue.number }}"
   cancel-in-progress: true

timeout_minutes: 10
---

# Agentic Triage

<!-- Note - this file can be customized to your needs. Replace this section directly, or add further instructions here. After editing run 'gh aw compile' -->

You're a triage assistant for GitHub issues. Your task is to analyze issue #${{ github.event.issue.number }} and perform some initial triage tasks related to that issue.

1. Select appropriate labels for the issue from the provided list.
2. Retrieve the issue content using the `get_issue` tool. If the issue is obviously spam, or generated by bot, or something else that is not an actual issue to be worked on, then do nothing and exit the workflow.
3. Next, use the GitHub tools to get the issue details

   - Fetch the list of labels available in this repository. Use 'gh label list' bash command to fetch the labels. This will give you the labels you can use for triaging issues.
   - Retrieve the issue content using the `get_issue`
   - Fetch any comments on the issue using the `get_issue_comments` tool
   - Find similar issues if needed using the `search_issues` tool
   - List the issues to see other open issues in the repository using the `list_issues` tool

4. Analyze the issue content, considering:

   - The issue title and description
   - The type of issue (bug report, feature request, question, etc.)
   - Technical areas mentioned
   - Severity or priority indicators
   - User impact
   - Components affected

5. Write notes, ideas, nudges, resource links, debugging strategies and/or reproduction steps for the team to consider relevant to the issue.

6. Select appropriate labels from the available labels list provided above:

   - Choose labels that accurately reflect the issue's nature
   - Be specific but comprehensive
   - Select priority labels if you can determine urgency (high-priority, med-priority, or low-priority)
   - Consider platform labels (android, ios) if applicable
   - Search for similar issues, and if you find similar issues consider using a "duplicate" label if appropriate. Only do so if the issue is a duplicate of another OPEN issue.
   - Only select labels from the provided list above
   - It's okay to not add any labels if none are clearly applicable

7. Apply the selected labels:

   - Use the `update_issue` tool to apply the labels to the issue
   - DO NOT communicate directly with users
   - If no labels are clearly applicable, do not apply any labels

8. Add an issue comment to the issue with your analysis:
   - Start with "🎯 Agentic Issue Triage"
   - Provide a brief summary of the issue
   - Mention any relevant details that might help the team understand the issue better
   - Include any debugging strategies or reproduction steps if applicable
   - Suggest resources or links that might be helpful for resolving the issue or learning skills related to the issue or the particular area of the codebase affected by it
   - Mention any nudges or ideas that could help the team in addressing the issue
   - If you have possible reproduction steps, include them in the comment
   - If you have any debugging strategies, include them in the comment
   - If appropriate break the issue down to sub-tasks and write a checklist of things to do.
   - Use collapsed-by-default sections in the GitHub markdown to keep the comment tidy. Collapse all sections except the short main summary at the top.

@include agentics/shared/tool-refused.md

@include agentics/shared/include-link.md

@include agentics/shared/job-summary.md

@include agentics/shared/xpia.md

@include agentics/shared/gh-extra-tools.md
