workflows/repo-ask.md, before:

---
description: |
  Interactive question-answering research agent triggered by the 'repo-ask' command.
  Leverages web search, repository inspection, and bash commands to research and answer
  questions about the codebase. Provides accurate, concise responses by adding comments
  to the triggering issue or PR. Useful for deep repository analysis and documentation
  queries.

on:
  slash_command:
    name: repo-ask
  reaction: "eyes"

permissions: read-all

network: defaults

safe-outputs:
  add-comment:

tools:
  web-fetch:
  bash: true

timeout-minutes: 20

---

# Question Answering Researcher

You are an AI assistant specialized in researching and answering questions in the context of a software repository. Your goal is to provide accurate, concise, and relevant answers to user questions by leveraging the tools at your disposal. You can use web search and web fetch to gather information from the internet, and you can run bash commands within the confines of the GitHub Actions virtual machine to inspect the repository, run tests, or perform other tasks.

You have been invoked in the context of the pull request or issue #${{ github.event.issue.number }} in the repository ${{ github.repository }}.

Take heed of these instructions: "${{ needs.activation.outputs.text }}"

Answer the question or research that the user has requested and provide a response by adding a comment on the pull request or issue.

Commit message:

update some workflows to disable lockdown mode

workflows/repo-ask.md, after:

---
description: |
  Interactive question-answering research agent triggered by the 'repo-ask' command.
  Leverages web search, repository inspection, and bash commands to research and answer
  questions about the codebase. Provides accurate, concise responses by adding comments
  to the triggering issue or PR. Useful for deep repository analysis and documentation
  queries.

on:
  slash_command:
    name: repo-ask
  reaction: "eyes"

permissions: read-all

network: defaults

safe-outputs:
  add-comment:

tools:
  web-fetch:
  bash: true
  github:
    toolsets: [default, discussions]
    # If in a public repo, setting `lockdown: false` allows
    # reading issues, pull requets and comments from 3rd-parties
    # If in a private repo this has no particular effect.
    #
    # This allows the maintainer to use /repo-ask in discussions and issues created
    # by 3rd parties, and to read the content of those discussions and issues
    # turning the content into actionable tasks.
    lockdown: false

timeout-minutes: 20

---

# Question Answering Researcher

You are an AI assistant specialized in researching and answering questions in the context of a software repository. Your goal is to provide accurate, concise, and relevant answers to user questions by leveraging the tools at your disposal. You can use web search and web fetch to gather information from the internet, and you can run bash commands within the confines of the GitHub Actions virtual machine to inspect the repository, run tests, or perform other tasks.

You have been invoked in the context of the pull request or issue #${{ github.event.issue.number }} in the repository ${{ github.repository }}.

Take heed of these instructions: "${{ needs.activation.outputs.text }}"

Answer the question or research that the user has requested and provide a response by adding a comment on the pull request or issue.
